Background
Gout is an inflammatory disease that primarily involves the joints and is considered one of the risk factors for other diseases, such as hypertension and cardiovascular disease[1]. Gout is more common in males than females[2], with a rise in prevalence due to changes in diet and lifestyle[3]. In the US, the prevalence of gout was 3.9% in 2007-2008[4]. In the UK, the prevalence of gout was 2.49% in 2012, which was a 63.9% increase over that in 1997[5]. In eastern China, the prevalence of gout was approximately 1.14% in 2008, whereas gout was regarded as a rare disease in 1980[6].
Gout is now known to be mainly caused by an abnormal increase in uric acid and the crystallization of monosodium urate (MSU) crystals. In healthy people, there are two ways to excrete uric acid from the body: the kidney, which is responsible for discharging 70% of uric acid, and the intestine, which excretes the remaining 30%[7]. Recent studies have shown that the gut microbiota is associated with several complex human diseases, including obesity (OB)[8], hypertension[9], ankylosing spondylitis (AS)[10] and rheumatoid arthritis (RA)[11] and may play an important role in the pathogenesis of those diseases. Interestingly, the gut microbiota has also been shown to correlate with gout. In gout patients, the abundance of Bacteroides caccae and Bacteroides xylanisolvens was significantly enriched, but the abundance of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Bifidobacterium pseudocatenulatum was decreased[12]. The gut microbial functions, including purine metabolism, were also altered in gout patients. Another study combining microbiome and metabolome analysis showed differences in metabolites and microbial taxa between gout patients and healthy individuals[13]. These results indicate that gut microbiota is associated with gout and may participate in the development of this disease. However, it is unclear how the gut microbiota is correlated with gout, so more studies need to be conduct to explore the relationship between the gut microbiota and gout.
In this study, we designed a two-stage metagenomics study in 188 Chinese people consisting of a discovery cohort of 77 gout patients and 63 healthy controls as well as a validation cohort of 25 gout patients and 23 healthy controls. We compared the gut microbiome between groups and identified the differential biomarkers related to gout. A disease classifier was constructed for gout based on gut microbiota. Comparison with four additional diseases revealed that gout was more similar to immune diseases.

Results
Intestinal microbial dysbiosis in gout patients
To investigate the gut microbiota in gout patients, we performed metagenomic shotgun sequencing of 307 fecal samples from 188 individuals. There were 140 samples in the discovery cohort, including 77 gout patients and 63 healthy controls, and 48 samples in the validation cohort, including 25 gout patients and 23 healthy controls. In addition, 70, 40 and 9 samples from gout patients in the discovery cohort were treated with medication at 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 24 weeks, respectively. All patient information is illustrated in Supplementary Table 1. Importantly, statistical analysis of clinical indices (Table 1) showed that differences mainly focused on the inflammation, kidney and gout-associated indices, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), serum creatinine (SCr), estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), serum uric acid (SUA), visual analog scale (VAS), arthralgia, arthrocele and articular pain. Moreover, we observed that BMI is higher in gout patients, which is consistent with the view that gout is associated with OB[14]. In addition, gout-associated indices declined after receiving drug treatment, suggesting the relief of gout patients.
We carried out rarefaction analysis by random sampling 100 times with replacement to assess the gene counts in discovery samples. As the sample size increased, both curves tended to be flat with few new genes detected, suggesting that the sequencing data were sufficient (Fig. 1A). Similar to previous studies in other diseases[8,9], we found that gout patients had lower microbial gene richness and diversity than healthy controls (gene number, P = 0.0024; Shannon index, P = 0.0016; Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Fig. 1B&C). Beta diversity analysis showed that dissimilarity between groups was greater than within groups (P = 0.0069, Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Fig. 1D). All the differentially enriched genes were used to perform principal component analysis (PCA), and the results showed that samples from gout patients and healthy controls were clearly clustered into two groups (Fig. 1E). By examining the first two principal components, we found that they were both significantly different between gout patients and healthy controls (PC1, P = 6.22e-07; PC2, P = 5.91e-12; Wilcoxon rank-sum test). All of these results showed a significant difference in intestinal microbial composition between gout patients and healthy controls.
To better understand the gut microbial differences between gout patients and healthy control groups and to identify microbial taxa associated with gout, all genes were annotated, and relative abundance tables of taxonomy at different levels were obtained. At the phylum level, the top 5 phyla were Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Actinobacteria and Fusobacteria (Fig. 1G). Bacteroidetes (P = 0.0073, Wilcoxon rank-sum test) and Fusobacteria (P = 0.0028, Wilcoxon rank-sum test) were enriched in gout patients, whereas Firmicutes (P = 0.0323, Wilcoxon rank-sum test) and Proteobacteria (P = 0.0050, Wilcoxon rank-sum test) were enriched in healthy controls. Additionally, we observed that the ratio of Bacteroides to Firmicutes was higher in gout patients than in controls (P = 0.0098, Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Fig. 1F), which suggests that the intestinal microbes of gout patients have changed and that Bacteroides and Firmicutes were the two main taxa in the gut of patients with gout.
A total of 160 genera and 329 species were significantly different in abundance between the two groups (P < 0.05, Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Fig. 1H&I and Supplementary Tables 3&4). All differential Bacteroides spp. (6 species), Prevotella spp. (18 species) and Fusobacterium spp. (4 species) were enriched in gout patients. Bacteroides has been reported to be significantly higher in the gut microbiota of gout patients and may be associated with inflammation[12]. Similarly, increased Prevotella-mediated gut mucosal inflammation leads to systemic diseases[15]. Prevotella copri (P = 0.0026, Wilcoxon rank-sum test) was observed to be increased in untreated rheumatoid arthritis[16] and displayed the ability to increase inflammation in a mouse model of colitis[16]. Fusobacterium spp., especially Fusobacterium nucleatum (P = 0.0003, Wilcoxon rank-sum test), have been demonstrated to correlate with colorectal cancer (CRC) and were often considered a pathogen. They can generate a proinflammatory microenvironment that is conducive to the development of CRC[17]. Lactobacillus spp. (15 species) and Streptococcus spp. (11 species) were also higher in gout patients. All of these differential species may contribute to the pathogenesis of gout. By contrast, butyrate-producing species, such as Roseburia spp. (3 species), Coprococcus spp. (3 species), Eubacterium spp. (3 species), Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and butyrate-producing bacterium SS3/4 were enriched in healthy controls (Supplementary Table 5). These species were reported to have anti-inflammatory effects for better health[18,19]. Some species belonging to Enterobacteriaceae, including Escherichia spp. (2 species), Klebsiella spp. (7 species), Enterobacter spp. (9 species) and Citrobacter spp. (7 species), were reported to degrade uric acid[20]. These species were higher in healthy controls, possibly helping reduce purine accumulation in the healthy controls.

Metagenomic species (MGS) associated with gout
To further explore the microbial species in gout patients, 178,233 differentially enriched genes (60,511 and 117,722 enriched in healthy controls and gout patients, respectively) were clustered into 3,831 co-abundance gene groups (CAGs) based on the co-variation of relative abundance across all samples using the Canopy-based algorithm. CAGs with fewer than 50 genes were filtered, and the remaining 134 were termed metagenomic species (MGSs) for follow-up analysis (Supplementary Table 6). All MGSs were significantly different between the two groups, where 73 MGSs were more abundant in gout patients, and the remaining 61 MGSs were more abundant in healthy controls (P < 0.05 and corrected by the Benjamini-Hochberg, Wilcoxon rank-sum test). Notably, only 24 of healthy control-enriched MGSs could be annotated as specific species compared with 53 of gout patients. Subsequently, we carried out co-occurrence network analysis for all MGSs (Spearman’s correlation coefficient ≥ 0.5 or ≤ -0.5; Fig. S1), and the results demonstrated distinct different network structures between the two groups. The MGSs enriched in gout patients were more highly interconnected compared with healthy controls. Bacteroides spp. except Bacteroides cellulosilyticus were overrepresented in gout patients and displayed more positive correlations with themselves as well as other gout-enriched bacterial species, including Collinsella sp., Flavonifractor sp., [Ruminococcus] torques. Escherichia coli and Klebsiella pneumoniae were obviously enriched in healthy controls and displayed intra-specific correlation. MGSs such as Coprococcus eutactus, Alistipes shahii, Ruminococcus bicirculans, F. prausnitzii and some unknown control-enriched MGSs were mildly interconnected. Only several unnamed control-enriched MGSs showed negative associations with [Ruminococcus] gnavus, which was enriched in gout patients. These results indicated that the composition and inter-species correlation of the gut microbiome in gout patients differed from healthy controls.

Functional characterization of gout patients
To investigate the functional differences in the microbiome between gout patients and healthy controls, a KEGG Orthology (KO) profile was constructed according to the reference gene catalogue annotation result. In total, 7,289 KOs were identified in all samples, of which 2,666 KOs (2,260 and 406 KOs enriched in healthy controls and gout patients, respectively) were differentially enriched between the two groups (false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.05, Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Supplementary Table 7). KOs profile was used to perform PCA, and the top two principal components were significantly different between gout patients and healthy controls (PC1, P < 0.0008; PC2, P < 0.0043, Wilcoxon rank-sum test; Fig. S2A&B), which indicated that the microbial function of gout patients was altered.
To further explore the functional changes, we analyzed the different KEGG pathways and modules between the two groups (Fig. S2C&D and Supplementary Table 8). The samples of gout patients displayed higher potential for carbohydrate metabolism, including fructose and mannose metabolism, starch and sucrose metabolism, amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism, the citrate cycle and 3 modules of glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. Low carbohydrates can reduce SUA and gout attacks[21]. The increase in fructose was reported to be associated with the risk of gout[22], and a previous study showed that a rapid infusion of fructose could raise the level of SUA[23]. In addition, we observed increased potential for lipopolysaccharide (LPS) biosynthesis and lipid A biosynthesis (Fig. S3A&B). LPS was reported to be a common component of gram-negative bacteria and could be an endotoxin associated with inflammation and disease[24]. In the two groups, Bacteroides and Prevotella were the major contributors to lipid A biosynthesis, but lipid A biosynthesis genes from Proteobacteria species were enriched in healthy controls (Fig. S3C). Functions related to bacterial infection, including bacterial invasion of epithelial cells, were enriched in gout patients. Infection may cause the intestinal epithelial barrier to be destroyed, making it easier for pathogens to enter the tissue. In contrast, the samples of healthy controls showed higher potential for cell motility, containing bacterial chemotaxis and flagellar assembly, similar to the previous results observed in AS[10] and type 2 diabetes (T2D)[25], and such mechanisms may be beneficial for health. Previous studies indicated that the gut microbiota may take part in purine metabolism[12,13]. Consistently, we observed that healthy controls had a higher potential for urate degradation (Fig. 2A&B), and Enterobacteriaceae was the major contributor (Fig. 2C and Supplementary Table 9). SUA was negatively correlated with Enterobacteriaceae species (Fig. 2D and Fig. S4), which indicated that the gut microbiome had the ability to degrade uric acid. To verify this result, we investigated the distribution of KOs involved in urate degradation among 1,135 species (Fig. S5 and Supplementary Table 10). Proteobacteria (706 species) was the predominant contributor, and the largest family was Enterobacteriaceae (119 species), which is consistent with our results addressed above. As SCFAs have been reported to be linked to healthy gut microbiota, we analyzed the abundance of genes encoding key enzymes involving SCFAs production. We found that the genes responsible for propionate and butyrate were significantly different between gout patients and healthy controls, whereas genes for acetate did not show any differences (Fig. S6).

Association between gut microbiome and clinical indices of gout
To explore the correlations between clinical indices and the microbial changes in gout, we performed permutational analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) to assess the influence of clinical indices on MGSs and observed that the disease status was the strongest factor (lowest P-values in PERMANOVA; Supplementary Table 11). Other clinical indices such as SUA, CRP, eGFR, ESR and SCr also showed correlation with microbial alteration (P < 0.05). Canonical coordinate analysis (CCA) showed that gout-enriched and control-enriched MGSs were clearly separated (Fig. S7). Except eGFR, other clinical indices were associated with gout-enriched MGSs, and gout status was the main factor affecting the composition of the gut microbiome, followed by SUA. Spearman’s correlation coefficient analysis was conducted for physiological indices and MGSs (Fig. S8 and Supplementary Table 12). A high level of SUA is a major feature of gout patients. We found SUA was positively correlated with many gout-enriched MGSs but negatively correlated with many control-enriched MGSs. Interestingly, we observed that almost all Bacteroides spp. enriched in gout patients were correlated with SUA, whereas no association between Bacteroides spp. enriched in healthy controls and SUA. The indicator of inflammation CRP showed a similar result. SCr displayed positive correlation with several gout-enriched MGSs. An increase in the level of SCr suggests impaired renal function. BMI, age, eGFR, ESR and urea displayed a correlation with a small number of MGSs. In addition, we carried out PCoA and PERMANOVA on the MGS level for gout related phenotypes, including gout duration, VAS, arthrocele, articular pain and tophi of gout patient samples (Fig. S9A-E and Supplementary Table 11), only tophi significantly separated the gout patient samples. Subsequently, significantly different MGSs were detected between gout patients with and without tophi. Control-enriched MGSs, such as F. prausnitzii, were higher in patients without tophi, whereas gout-enriched MGSs, especially Bacteroides spp., were enriched in patients with tophi (Fig. S9F). These results suggest that the microbiota in the gut may help decrease the accumulation of SUA and prevent the formation of tophi.

Gut microbiota-based gout classification
Despite distinct microbial differences between gout patients and healthy controls, we wondered if the gut microbiome had the potential to distinguish gout patients from healthy controls. A disease classifier was constructed based on the MGS profile using a random forest model in the discovery cohort (63 healthy controls and 77 gout patients), and the corresponding receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was constructed. All MGSs were entered into the disease classifier, and 16 MGSs were selected as biomarkers to establish a classification model with a fivefold cross-validation approach (Fig. 3A-C and Supplementary Table 13). Notably, the area under the receiver operating curve (AUC) reached 0.93. We found that only three MGS biomarkers were enriched in healthy controls, whereas others were enriched in gout patients. Five of the top ten most important MGSs for classification, including Gout-107, Bacteroides sp. (100), Megamonas sp. (102), Blautia sp. (92), Parabacteroides distasonis (74), had the lowest P value. To evaluate the accuracy of this classification model, an independent cohort consisting of 25 gout patients and 23 healthy controls was used for validation, and the AUC value was 0.89 (Fig. 3D&E and Supplementary Table 14). In addition, 16 MGS biomarkers were used to distinguish patients from healthy controls in the AS, RA, T2D and OB cohorts (Fig. 3F). The AUC was lower than in the gout cohort, suggesting that the 16 MGS biomarkers are gout-specific. These results indicated that gout-associated microbial biomarkers may have the potential to be used for a novel and noninvasive diagnostic strategy for gout.

Effect of uric-acid-lowering and anti-inflammatory drugs intervention on the gut microbiome
Previous studies of metagenomics have demonstrated the potential influence of drugs on the microbiota[26]. Here, we assessed the effect of drug intervention on intestinal microbiota in this gout cohort. We conducted a 2-week (2W, n = 61), 4-week (4W, n = 38), and 24-week (24W, n = 7) treatment intervention for gout patients. Most of the treated gout patients received uric-acid-lowering and anti-inflammatory drugs intervention (Fig. S10A and Supplementary Table 1). We excluded 9, 2, and 2 fecal samples from the 2W, 4W and 24W groups, respectively, from this analysis because these patients did not use any drugs or used other unusual drugs (the sample size was too small), such as NaHCO3 and traditional Chinese medicine. Subsequently, we compared their microbial composition with untreated gout patients (n = 77) and healthy controls (n = 63). The gene numbers, Shannon index and PCoA showed that the gut microbial composition was significantly different between healthy controls and gout patients. (P < 0.05; Fig. S10B). However, no significant difference was found between before and after treatment in gout patients, and PERMANOVA analysis also supported this result (Supplementary Table 15). Considering that the unmatched sample size at different time points may influence the result, we selected five gout patients whose fecal samples were collected at all the time points for further analysis. Interestingly, we observed samples of 24W treatment and found that the gut microbial composition was further away from other time points and more similar to samples of healthy controls (Fig. S10D). This may indicate that the effect of uric-acid-lowering and anti-inflammatory drugs on the gut microbiome was modest and partially restored the gut microbiome over time, similar to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARD)[11]. Allopurinol, colchicine, celecoxib, etoricoxib and betamethasone had no impact on human gut bacteria in vitro in a previous report[27]. Benzbromarone has been shown to inhibit gut bacterial growth in vitro[27] Our results have suggested a more complicated relationship between drugs and gut microbiota in vivo. Therefore, the mechanisms of specific drugs on the gut microbiome needs to be further studied in intervention trials of larger cohorts.

Comparison of the gut microbiome between gout and other diseases
To better understand the potential role of intestinal microbes in gout, we compared the gut microbial composition of gout with AS, RA, T2D and OB, of which the first two are immune diseases, and the last two are metabolic diseases. From the P value distribution, we inferred that the degree of gut microbial dysbiosis in gout patients was intermediate compared with the other four diseases, with OB being severe and RA being mild (Fig. 4A). Significant microbiota marker numbers also supported this conclusion (Fig. 11B). Notably, very few significant microbiota markers (FDR < 0.05, only 6 genes FDR less than 0.05) were detected in RA patients. Surprisingly, the gut microbial composition of gout patients was closer to AS patients (Fig. 4C and Fig. S11A), and they shared 40 different species. However, some species were common in these diseases. A significant enrichment of Acidaminococcus fermentans, Streptococcus anginosus, Megasphaera elsdenii and Megasphaera micronuciformis was observed in all diseases except RA. In addition, Streptococcus spp. also had a higher abundance in patients. For gut microbial functions, gout patients were also more similar to autoimmune diseases RA and AS (Fig. 4D and Fig. S11B). The functions of oxidative phosphorylation; alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism; carbon fixation pathways in prokaryotes; and carotenoid biosynthesis were enriched in gout, AS and RA patients, whereas the functions of bacterial chemotaxis and flagellar assembly were depleted in these three diseases and T2D. Except for fructose and mannose metabolism and S. aureus infection, no differential function was shared among gout, OB or T2D. Collectively, these results have indicated that the gut microbiome of gout patients is more similar to autoimmune diseases.

Discussion
In this metagenome-wide associated study, we observed that the gut microbiome of gout patients was substantially different from healthy controls. Specifically, in gout patients, the abundance of Bacteroides and Prevotella was enriched, while the abundance of Enterobacteriaceae and SCFA-producing bacteria was depleted. Analysis of microbial functions demonstrated that gout patients had an enhanced ability to metabolize fructose and mannose and synthesize LPS and lipid A but a reduced ability to degrade purine and generate SCFAs. These alterations in gut microbial species and functions may contribute to the development of gout (Fig. 5). Furthermore, based on the identified differential biomarkers in the discovery cohort, we constructed a disease classifier to explore the potential of using gut microbiota for the diagnosis of gout, and it performed well in the validation cohort. Finally, we observed that the gut microbiome of gout was more similar to AS and RA compared with T2D and OB, which suggested that gout was possibly an autoimmune disease, at least from the perspective of the gut microbiome.
The ability to degrade uric acid is widely distributed among the Enterobacteriaceae[20]. Our analysis results also supported this conclusion (Fig. 2). Enterobacteriaceae species had the ability to utilize purines or grow with uric acid as a source of nitrogen and carbon[28]. We observed that the relative abundance of K. pneumoniae, E. coli, Enterobacter cloacae and Citrobacter freundii, which belong to Enterobacteriaceae, increased in healthy controls, suggesting that Enterobacteriaceae may help degrade purines in the gut and maintain the stability of uric acid in the body. Additionally, increasing the intake of sugar-sweetened soft drinks and fructose was associated with a higher risk of gout[29,30]. Fructose may increase de novo purine biosynthesis to contribute to the production of uric acid[31]. In this study, we observed some microbial functions associated with fructose metabolism, including starch and sucrose metabolism, and fructose and mannose metabolism were enriched in gout patients, which may help increase the production of uric acid, thus increasing the risk of gout.
Previous studies have shown that bacterial components including LPS play a crucial role in immune homeostasis[32]. Moreover, it is reported that LPS is involved in gouty inflammation[33]. The Lipid A is the key component of LPS for host immune recognition. The lipid A with six acyl chains produced by Enterobacteriaceae is able to induce endotoxin tolerance, which is a healthy immunostimulatory effect. However, this effect can be inhibited by the lipid A with 4 or 5 acyl chains produced by Bacteroides or Prevotella[34,35]. In our results, lipid A biosynthesis genes from Bacteroides and Prevotella enriched in gout patients may reduce the healthy immune stimulating effect of Enterobacteriaceae, which may contribute to the inflammation in gout. Furthermore, the Enterobacteriaceae species E. coli has been reported to suppress arthritis, possibly through LPS in animal models[36,37]. Interestingly, Klebsiella, belonging to Enterobacteriaceae, has also been shown to be depleted in autoimmune diseases, including RA[11] and AS[10]. These results indicate that Enterobacteriaceae may have a regulatory effect on arthritic diseases.
Dietary fiber can be fermented by the gut microbiome to form SCFAs that have anti-inflammatory effects. Accumulated evidence indicated that SCFAs are associated with inflammatory diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)[38], asthma[39] and allergies[40]. SCFAs also affect gout inflammation. Butyrate suppressed acute gout arthritis by inhibiting histone deacetylases (HDACs) and decreased MSU-induced production of IL-1β, IL-6 and IL-8[41]. Furthermore, butyrate biosynthesis in the gut was depleted in gout patients[12]. Acetate also promotes resolution of the inflammatory response induced by MSU in a model of gout mice[42]. SCFA-producing bacteria[43–45], such as Roseburia spp., Butyrivibrio spp., Coprococcus spp., F. prausnitzii, and butyrate-producing bacterium (Supplementary Table 7), and SCFA-producing enzymes (Fig. S5) were enriched in healthy controls in this study, suggesting that SCFAs may play an important role in remitting gout inflammation. Cell mobility, including flagellar assembly and bacterial chemotaxis, was enriched in healthy controls, and flagellin induces epithelial cells to secrete antimicrobial peptides that help control the growth of opportunistic pathogens. All these microbial functions may help maintain a healthy gut environment in healthy controls, thereby reducing the risk of gout.
Based on the alteration of gut microbial composition, we constructed a classifier to discriminate heathy controls and gout patients and obtained high accuracy (0.93 and 0.89 for the discovery and validation cohorts, respectively). It confirms that microbial biomarkers we found in our study have a high specificity which suggests the possible application of these biomarkers in disease diagnosis and treatment. Previous reports also found that microbial biomarkers could be used as a novel and noninvasive method for diagnosing gout[12] or other diseases[46,47]. However, the microbiota-based disease prediction model was restricted by geography[48]. Future studies should collect a large geographic scale to construct a common model for predicting gout status. Moreover, gut microbiome alteration may occur earlier than clinical symptoms[9]. A cohort with high SUA but no gout could be added to investigate the dynamic of the gut microbiome. 
For gout treatment, although SUA was decreased after taking a uric-acid-lowering drug, a previous report recommended that drug treatment should be continued for 6 months for gout patients without tophi[49]. Consistently, we found that the composition of the gut microbiota was not affected by drug treatment over a short time period and was partially restored over 6 months (Fig. S10). This finding implies that gut microbiota may play an additional key role in treatment, and the modest regulation of gut microbiota might be related to gout relapse after discontinuing the current mainstream drugs. In view of the influence of intestinal microbes on gout, gout may be prevented, and the risk can be reduced through the restoration of the gut by improving lifestyle and diet or early intervention with drugs.
We observed that the gut microbiota of gout was more similar to immune diseases in terms of the microbial composition and functions (Fig. 4), although RA was not clustered together with gout and AS at the species level. Although we are unsure how these species and functions affect the host immune system, the similarities in gut microbiota suggest that they may play a common role in the development of immunity. However, because of the small sample size and limitations of statistical analysis methods, a larger sample size and further analysis are needed for evaluation and validation. 

Conclusion
Our results demonstrated the significant differences of gut microbial composition and functions between gout patients and healthy controls and found gut microbiota may play a crucial role in the development of gout. The good performance of our disease classification model suggests the potential of gut microbiota for the diagnosis of gout in clinical practice. However, sophisticated models considering confounding factors such as geography should be constructed and validated in large independent cohorts. Further studies should use longitudinal samples and animal models to investigate the dynamics of gout and determine the causality of gut microbiota and gout. Our study also suggests that gout patients may improve their condition by adjusting the gut microbiota such as changing lifestyle or regulating diet.

Methods
Subjects
This study was approved by the Medical Ethics Committee of the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine (B2016-103-01). All of the participants provided written informed consent. Patients were diagnosed with gout as determined by the 2015 ACR/EULAR classification criteria[50] and suitability for the treatment in this clinical trial. Patients and healthy controls had to meet the following criteria: (1) 15-69 years of age; (2) no antibiotics and glucocorticoid use within 3 months and 1 month, respectively; (3) no gastrointestinal diseases, such as gastrointestinal surgery, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, or acute diarrhea; (4) no history of severe, progressive or uncontrolled cardiac, hepatic, renal, mental, or hematological disease; and (5) no history of drug abuse.
Between May 2016 and September 2018, we recruited 102 male gout patients (SUA, 543.1 ± 128.4 μmol/L, data are mean ± s.d.) and 86 age-matched male healthy controls (SUA, 358.6 ± 52.3 μmol/L, data are mean ± s.d.) from the Chinese population for this study (Supplementary Table 1). After collecting fecal samples at baseline, gout patients were treated with uric-acid-lowering (benzbromarone, allopurinol, febuxostat) and anti-inflammatory drugs (colchicine, celecoxib, etoricoxib, betamethasone, voltaren), and fecal samples were collected after treatment for 2 weeks (n = 70), 4 weeks (n = 40), and 24 weeks (n = 9). A total of 307 fecal samples were collected from the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine and frozen at -80 °C until transport.
Blood samples were collected and frozen at -80 °C until analysis. Serum uric acid (SUA), serum creatinine (SCr), urea nitrogen, C-reactive protein (CRP), and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) were measured using the Cobas 8000 modular analyzer (Roche, Switzerland), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was measured using the Test-1 analyzer (Alifax, Italy).

DNA extraction and library construction
Total bacterial DNA was extracted from all fecal samples using the E.Z.N.A Stool DNA Kit (OMEGA, USA) according the manufacturer’s instructions. The quality of DNA was analyzed using Qubit (Invitrogen, USA) and 1% agarose gel electrophoresis. DNA library construction was performed following the manufacturer’s instructions (Illumina).

Metagenomic sequencing
Paired-end metagenomic sequencing was performed on the Illumina HiSeq 4000 platform with an insert size of 350 bp and paired-end (PE) reads of 150 bp for each sample. After removing adaptors and low quality and ambiguous bases from the raw reads, the remaining reads were aligned to human genome reference (hg19) by SOAPaligner (v2.22, parameters: -m 280 -x 420 -r 1 -l 32 -s 75 -c 0.9) to remove human host DNA contamination. The average rate of host contamination was 0.52 ± 1.62%. Finally, 3,166.77 Gb of high-quality PE reads for the 307 samples were acquired with an average of 9.02 Gb per sample (Supplementary Table 2).

Construction of gene, phylum, genus, species and KO profiles
The clean reads were aligned to the 11,446,577 genes in the reference gene catalogue[51] using SOAPaligner (v2.22, parameters: -m 200 -x 1000 -r 2 -v 13 -l 32 -s 75 -c 0.95), and 72.79 ± 2.89% reads (n = 307, data are mean ± s.d.) were mapped. The gene abundance profile was calculated as previously described[10]. After removing genes detected in less than 10% of the discovery samples (n = 259), 1,564,977 genes remained. To improve the gene taxonomy annotation result, genes were aligned to the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) microbial reference genomes (including 5,847 microbial genomes, v20171114) and NT database (v20170924) using BLAT (v.36) and Megablast (v2.2.26) with default parameters, respectively. The cutoff was at least 70% overlap of query and 65% identity for phylum, 85% identity for genus, and 95% identity for species[52]. The relative abundance of phyla, genera, species and KOs were calculated from the relative abundance of their respective genes using previously published methods[52].

Rarefaction curve, gene counts and biodiversity analysis
Rarefaction analysis was performed to assess the gene richness in the healthy controls and gout patients. For a given number of samples, we performed random sampling 100 times in the cohort with replacement and estimated the total number of genes that could be identified from these samples by the Chao2 richness estimator[53]. The total gene counts in each sample were calculated as previously described[54]. The alpha diversity and beta diversity were estimated by the Shannon index and Bray-Curtis distance, respectively. To adjust for the effect of the various data sizes among the samples, these analyses were based on gene profiles that were randomly sampled to 11 million (M) matched reads.

Gene functional analysis
Differentially enriched KEGG pathways and modules were identified according to reporter score[55] from the Z-scores of individual KEGG Orthologies (KOs) (KEGG database release 79). Pathways or modules were considered significantly different if the |reporter score| > 1.65, corresponding to 95% confidence to a normal distribution (Supplementary Table 8).
For analysis of urate degradation genes, species that contain at least one urate degradation gene in the KEGG database (v79) were collected, and the corresponding 16S sequences were downloaded from the Ribosomal Database Project (RDP, set14). Then, 16S sequences were aligned by PyNAST (v1.2.2), and trees were constructed by fasttree (v2.1.7). The tree and heat map were visualized in iTOL[56].
The protein sequences of SCFA-producing enzymes were obtained from the NCBI database[57]. Genes in the reference gut microbiome gene catalogue were aligned to these sequences using BLASTP (v2.2.26, best hit with e-value < 1e-5, identity > 70% and coverage > 70%), and their relative abundance were calculated as KOs.

Co-abundance gene groups
A total of 178,233 genes differed in relative abundance between healthy controls and gout patients in the discovery cohort (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, P < 0.01, FDR < 0.05) from 1,564,977 genes (present at least 10% of the samples in discovery cohort). These marker genes were clustered into 3,831 co-abundance gene groups (CAGs) based on their relative abundance variation across all samples using the Canopy-based algorithm with default parameters[58]. Clusters including at least 50 genes remained for further analysis and were called metagenomic species (MGS). MGSs were assigned to a species, genus or phylum if more than 50% of their genes had the same level of assignment[58]. The relationship between the abundance of each MGS was according to Spearman’s correlation, and the co-occurrence network was visualized with Cytoscape (v3.4.0).

Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA)
CCA was performed on the MGS abundance profile to assess the effect of each of the indices listed. The plot was generated by R (v3.4.0, vegan package).

PERMANOVA on the influence of phenotype
Permutation multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) was performed on the MGS abundance profile to assess the impact from each of the clinical indices listed (Supplementary Table 4)[59]. We used Bray-Curtis distance and 9,999 permutations in R (3.4.0, vegan package).

MGS-based classifier
We constructed a classifier to discriminate healthy controls and gout patients based on a random forest model (randomForest 4.6-14 package) using the profile of MGS relative abundance[59]. A fivefold cross-validation approach was used to evaluate the predictive model. We calculated the average cross-validation error curves and the minimum error in the averaged curve, plus the standard deviation at that point was used as the cutoff to filter the predictive model. The ones containing the smallest number of MGSs among all sets with an error below the cutoff were chosen as a diagnosis classifier. Then, the probability of gout was calculated based on this optimal set, and the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) for both the discovery cohort and validation cohort were drawn using the pROC package[60].

Comparison of the gut microbiota between gout and other diseases
Published metagenomic sequencing data of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) (SRP100575 and ERP005860; 114 healthy controls and 97 patients with AS)[10], rheumatoid arthritis (RA) (ERP006678; 74 healthy controls and 95 patients with RA)[11], type 2 diabetes (T2D) (SRP008047 and SRP011011; 185 healthy controls and 183 patients with T2D)[25] and obesity (OB) (ERP013562; 105 healthy controls and 95 patients with OB)[8] were downloaded from NCBI or EBI. All sequencing reads were mapped to the same reference gut gene catalogue and analyzed for gene function by the same pipeline as the gout cohort. To avoid methodological differences, the reference gene catalogue taxa result was used for all cohorts, including the gout cohort.

Statistical analysis
All statistical analyses were performed by R (v3.4.0). Differential relative abundance of genes, taxa and KOs were detected by Wilcoxon rank-sum with P value or FDR < 0.05. Enrichment in healthy controls or gout patients was determined according to the higher mean rank-sum. Principal component analysis (PCA) and principal coordinate analysis (PCoA) were performed based on differential gene and MGS profiles, respectively.
